All right.
Welcome back.
So this section is all about Noad and express which is a known framework as well as Mongo which is a
database.
But I want to get it out of the way.
This is not a comprehensive overview of all of those topics in one tiny section.
There are great courses out there including one by me that cover those topics in great detail over 10
20 plus hours.
So this content here is focused on one goal which is preparing you for react.
So if you've never worked with Noad or Monga or express this will be enough to get you ready for react.
And if you have worked with those tools before there's still probably something here because we're not
going to be building a traditional express application with Mongo.
We're actually focusing on building an API our own based on API.
Just like the ones we've been consuming.
So there's two goals to prepare for re-act want to build our own Jason API.
And then we want to build a single page app that consumes our own API.
So the way single page apps work on the front end we have some javascript whether it's vanilla ice or
Jay query or something more structured like react or angular which are both frameworks that are making
requests and then updating our view and the DOM keeping track of interactions basically handing handling
everything on the front end that are requesting an API.
And so far we've been using preexisting API like weather API movie API as quotes and so on but to build
our own re-act apps we need to build our own.
JS on API guys.
So you could use something like express a node framework you could use rails which is a ruby framework
Genger flask with both which both are python frameworks.
It doesn't really matter you can mix and match these but we're going to focus on using react on the
front end which would be communicating with an express backend.
So the end result here is that we'll have a single page up just a really simple one.
In this case when we get to react or focus on more complex things.
Here's a very simple single page to do list.
So I have a form and then I have to do's and I can create a new to do let's say walk dog.
And it adds down here.
But if I refresh the page it's still there to actually being added to a Mangu database and I can update
them by crossing them off and I refresh the page they're still crossed off and it's actually being updated
in a database.
Same thing with the delete.
So that's our and single page application.
But underlying this I go to slash API slash to Dewes.
You can see one of the JS on API endpoints that we're going to be building and there are others.
There's an end point to update to do there's an end point to create a to do and one to delete to do
as well.
So we're going to learn how to make this API first.
How do we respond with Jason and then we'll focus on building an application using that API.
So behind the scenes if we look at some of the requests that are being made here let's say when I update
when I click on this to cross it off you can see an essay char's generated and it's sent to our own
API.
If I look at this X-C char it sent to slash API slash to use slash this massive ID.
And we'll talk more about that once we get there.
But the idea is we're building an API and then we're building an app that uses our own API that's connected
to our own database.
So that's where we're going.
The last thing I'll add is that if you're totally comfortable with the basics of express and routing
or responding with Jason Mongo D-B mongoose all of that you may not need to go through this section.
You might just want to skip to the code at the end.
Look at the finished API look at the finished single page map and make sure you're comfortable with
how it works because in the reac section we're going to be using very very similar code building our
own Express API eyes with the exact same syntax.
So make sure that if you do want to skip it just look at the code first.
And if you have any questions make sure you get those answers.
OK.
Let's get on with it.